# ChatServer
This is a basic chat server, the server is ran by executing the file chatRoom.java. A user connects to server by running the command java ChatScreen localhost <username> on the command line. A user can type a message and hit send, to send a message to all other users that are connected to the server. A user disconnects by hitting exit.
 
I chose this program to demonstrate an example of my work completed in a group setting. This program also demonstrates understanding in how a computer system interacts with a network by creating a server, and allowing clients to connect to it. I thought this project would nicely represent my programming because I thought the versatility of it is impressive in that it can be ran anywhere and be connected to by other users running different protocols. This program is a great example of concurrent programming by means of utilizing an executor thread pool. I think that using the thread pool and implementing socket programming demonstrates concepts pertinant to most modern applications, so I thought this program would be a good way to demonstrate experience in multithreaded programming.

I liked that we were allowed some creativity in this project, in that we were able to define our own network protocol and implement it. Implementing it definitely took lots of communication between memebers in my group, and a difficult program like this, completed as a group, likely help all of our understanding in that we were often explaining difficult concepts to one another. This program also implements the runnable interface which is widely used. Between demonstrating implementing an interface, socket programming experience, and concurrent programming experience, this project included a few different highly relevant technologies. Additionally, there was a little bit of thought regarding software design in designing a protocol that would be dynamic, minimalistic, and efficent. 
